The following tables provide a quick reference for all virsh command line options.
Command	 Description
help	 Prints basic help information.
list	 Lists all guests.
dumpxml	 Outputs the XML configuration file for the guest.
create	 Creates a guest from an XML configuration file and starts the new guest.
start	 Starts an inactive guest.
destroy	 Forces a guest to stop.
define	 Outputs an XML configuration file for a guest.
domid	 Displays the guest's ID.
domuuid	 Displays the guest's UUID.
dominfo	 Displays guest information.
domname	 Displays the guest's name.
domstate	 Displays the state of a guest.
quit	 Quits the interactive terminal.
reboot	 Reboots a guest.
restore	 Restores a previously saved guest stored in a file.
resume	 Resumes a paused guest.
save	 Save the present state of a guest to a file.
shutdown	 Gracefully shuts down a guest.
suspend	 Pauses a guest.
undefine	 Deletes all files associated with a guest.
migrate	 Migrates a guest to another host.
Table 28.1. Guest management commands

The following virsh command options manage guest and hypervisor resources:
Command	 Description
setmem	 Sets the allocated memory for a guest.
setmaxmem	 Sets maximum memory limit for the hypervisor.
setvcpus	 Changes number of virtual CPUs assigned to a guest.
vcpuinfo	 Displays virtual CPU information about a guest.
vcpupin	 Controls the virtual CPU affinity of a guest.
domblkstat	 Displays block device statistics for a running guest.
domifstat	 Displays network interface statistics for a running guest.
attach-device	 Attach a device to a guest, using a device definition in an XML file.
attach-disk	 Attaches a new disk device to a guest.
attach-interface	 Attaches a new network interface to a guest.
detach-device	 Detach a device from a guest, takes the same kind of XML descriptions as command attach-device.
detach-disk	 Detach a disk device from a guest.
detach-interface	 Detach a network interface from a guest.
Table 28.2. Resource management options

These are miscellaneous virsh options:
Command	 Description
version	 Displays the version of virsh
nodeinfo	 Outputs information about the hypervisor
Table 28.3. Miscellaneous options

